.TH FIG2PS2TEX 1 "14 Mar 1991"
.SH NAME
fig2ps2tex - generate a TeX file for including a PostScript file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fig2ps2tex
.I file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Fig2ps2tex
generates a TeX file for including a PostScript file in a TeX document.
This involves calculating the bounding box from the Postscript document.
The TeX inclusion file is written to stdout.
.PP
There is also
.I Fig2ps2tex.sh
for those systems without csh and/or dc (Linux for example).
.PP
Note that the
.I psfig
macro package provides a more sophisticated approach to including
Postscript files in LaTeX docuements.
.I Fig2ps2tex
works with plain TeX however.

.SH USAGE
.PP
Assume the Postscript file is called
.I foo.ps .
The command

.ce
% fig2ps2tex foo.ps >foo.tex

will create the inclusion file with bounding information.
Then include this file in your TeX document with the command

.ce
\einput{foo}

.SH "SEE ALSO"
psfig(1),
latex(1),
fig2dev(1),
transfig(1).

.SH AUTHOR
Micah Beck
.br
Cornell University

Man page by George Ferguson, ferguson@cs.rochester.edu.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1994 Micah Beck
.LP
The X Consortium, and any party obtaining a copy of these files from
the X Consortium, directly or indirectly, is granted, free of charge, a
full and unrestricted irrevocable, world-wide, paid up, royalty-free,
nonexclusive right and license to deal in this software and
documentation files (the "Software"), including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons who receive
copies from any such party to do so, with the only requirement being
that this copyright notice remain intact.  This license includes without
limitation a license to do the foregoing actions under any patents of
the party supplying this software to the X Consortium.
