.TH FIG2DEV 1 "Version 3.2.5e August 2013"
.SH NAME
fig2dev \- translates Fig code to various graphics languages

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fig2dev
.B \-L
.I language
[
.B \-m
.I mag
] [
.B \-f
.I font
] [
.B \-s
.I fsize
] [
.I other options
] [
\fIfig-file\fR [ \fIout-file\fR ] ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fig2dev
translates fig code in the named
.I fig-file
into the specified graphics
.I language
and puts them in
.I out-file.
The default
.I fig-file
and
.I out-file
are standard input and standard output, respectively
.LP
Xfig (Facility for Interactive Generation of figures) is a screen-oriented
tool which runs under the X Window System, and
allows the user to draw and manipulate objects interactively.
This version of fig2dev is compatible with
xfig versions 1.3, 1.4, 2.0, 2.1, 3.0, 3.1 and 3.2.
.LP
Xfig version 3.2.3 and later saves and allows the user to edit comments
for each Fig object.  These comments are output with several of the output languages,
such as PostScript, CGM, EMF, LaTeX, MetaFont, PicTeX, (as % comments),
tk (as # comments), and pic (as .\\" comments).

.SH GENERAL OPTIONS (all drivers)
.TP
.B "\-L language"
Set the output graphics language.
Valid languages are
\fBbox, cgm, epic, eepic, eepicemu, emf, eps, gbx (Gerber beta driver), gif, ibmgl, jpeg,
latex, map (HTML image map), mf (MetaFont),
mp (MetaPost), mmp (Multi-MetaPost),
pcx, pdf, pdftex, pdftex_t, pic, pictex, png, ppm, ps,
pstex, pstex_t, pstricks, ptk (Perl/tk),
shape (LaTeX shaped paragraphs), sld (AutoCad slide format), 
svg (beta driver), textyl,
tiff, tk (tcl/tk), tpic, xbm and
xpm\fR.

Notes:
.br
.I dvips
and
.I xdvi
must be compiled with the tpic support (-DTPIC) for epic, eepic and tpic to work.
.br
You must have ghostscript and ps2pdf, which comes with the ghostscript distribution
to get the pdf output and the bitmap formats (png, jpeg, etc.), and the netpbm (pbmplus)
package to get gif, xbm, xpm, and sld output.

.TP
.B \-h
Print help message with all options for all output languages then exit.

.TP
.B \-V
Print the program version number and exit.

.TP
.B "\-D +/-rangelist"
With +rangelist, keep only those depths in the list.  With -rangelist, keep all
depths except those in the list. The rangelist may be a list of comma-separated
numbers or ranges separated by colon (:). For example, -D +10,40,55:70,80
means keep only layers 10, 40, 55 \fBthrough\fR 70, and 80.

.TP
.B -K
The selection of the depths with the '-D +/-rangelist' option does normally not
affect the calcualtion of the bounding box. Thus the generated document might 
have a much larger bounding box than necessary. If -K is given then the 
bounding box is adjusted to include only those objects in the selected depths.

.TP
.B "\-f font"
Set the default font used for text objects to
.I font.
The default is Roman; the format of this option depends on the graphics
.I language
in use.
In TeX-based languages, the font is the base of the name given in lfonts.tex,
for instance "cmr" for Roman, or "tt" for teletype.
In PostScript, it is any font name known to the printer or interpreter. For Gerber it has no effect.

.TP
.B "\-G minor[:major][:unit]"
Draws a grid on the page.  Specify thin, or thin and thick line
spacing in one of several units.  For example, "-G .25:1cm" draws a thin,
gray line every .25 cm and a thicker gray line every 1 cm.  Specifying
"-G 1in" draws a thin line every 1 inch.
Fractions may be used, e.g. "-G 1/16:1/2in" will draw a thin line every
1/16 inch (0.0625 inch) and a thick line every 1/2 inch.
.br
Allowable units are: i, in, inch, f, ft, feet, c, cm, mm, and m.
.br
.B Only allowed for PostScript, EPS, PDF, and bitmap (GIF, JPEG, etc) drivers for now.

.TP
.B \-j
Enable the I18N internationalization facility.

.TP
.B "\-m mag"
Set the magnification at which the figure is rendered to
.I mag.
The default is 1.0.
This may not be used with the maxdimension option (-Z).

.TP
.B "\-s size"
Set the default font size (in points) for text objects to
.I fsize.
The default is 11*mag, and thus is scaled by the \fB-m\fR option.
If there is no scaling, the default font is eleven point Roman."

.TP
.B "\-Z maxdimension"
Scale the figure so that the maximum dimension (width or height) is
.I maxdimension
inches or cm, depending on whether the figure was saved with
imperial or metric units.
This may not be used with the magnification option (-m).

.TP
.I other options
The other options are specific to the choice of graphics
.I language,
as described below.

.SH CGM OPTIONS
CGM is Computer Graphics Metafile, developed by ISO and ANSI and is a
vector-based plus bitmap language.  Microsoft WORD, PowerPoint and probably
other products can import this format
.I and display it on the screen,
something that they won't do with EPS files that have an ASCII preview.
.TP
.B "\-b dummyarg"
Generate binary output (dummy argument required after the "-b").

.TP
.B \-r
Position arrowheads for CGM viewers that display rounded arrowheads.
Normally, arrowheads are pointed, so fig2dev compensates for this by
moving the endpoint of the line back so the tip of the arrowhead ends
where the original endpoint of the line was.
If the \fB-r\fR option is used, the position
of arrows will \fINOT\fR be corrected for compensating line width effects,
because the rounded arrowhead doesn't extend beyond the endpoint of the line.

.SH EMF OPTIONS
EMF is Enhanced Metafile, developed by Microsoft and is a
vector-based plus bitmap language.  Microsoft WORD, PowerPoint and probably
other products can import this format
.I and display it on the screen,
something that they won't do with EPS files that have an ASCII preview.

.SH EPIC OPTIONS
EPIC is an enhancement to LaTeX picture drawing environment.
It was developed by Sunil Podar of Department of Computer Science
in S.U.N.Y at Stony Brook.
.LP
EEPIC is an extension to EPIC and LaTeX picture drawing environment
which uses tpic specials as a graphics mechanism.
It was written by Conrad Kwok of Division of
Computer Science at University of California, Davis.
.LP
EEPIC-EMU is an EEPIC emulation package which does not use tpic specials.

.TP
.B "\-A factor"
Scale arrowheads by
.I factor.
The width and height of arrowheads is
.I divided
by this factor.  This is because
.I EPIC
arrowheads are normally about
double the size of
.I TeX
arrowheads.

.TP
.B "\-E num"
Set encoding for text translation (0 = none, 1 = ISO-8859-1, 2 = ISO-8859-2)

.TP
.B \-F
Don't set the font face, series, and style; only set it's size and the
baselineskip. By default, fig2dev sets all 5 font parameters when it 
puts some text. The disadvantage is that you can't set the font from your
LaTeX document. With this option on, you can set the font from your LaTeX
document (like "\fB\\sfshape \\input picture.eepic\fR").
.IP
If any of the pictures included in your LaTeX document has been generated
with \fB-F\fR, then all pictures must be generated with this option.
.IP
This option can be used only when fig2dev was compiled with NFSS defined.

.TP
.B "\-l width"
Use "\fB\\thicklines\fR" when width of the line is wider than
.I lwidth.
The default is 2.

.TP
.B \-P
Generate a complete LaTeX file. In other words, the output file can be
formatted without requiring any changes. The additional text inserted
in the beginning and at the end of the file is controlled by the
configuration parameter "Preamble" and "Postamble".

.TP
.B \-R
Allow rotated text. Rotated text will be set using the \\rotatebox command.
So, you will need to include "\fB\\usepackage{graphics}\fR" in the preamble
of your LaTeX document.
.IP
If this option is not set, then rotated text will be set horizontally.


.TP
.B "\-S scale"
Set the scale to which the figure is rendered.
This option automatically sets the
.I magnification
and size to
.I scale
/ 12 and
.I scale
respectively.

.TP
.B "\-t stretch"
Set the stretch factor of dashed lines to
.I sretch.
The default is 30.

.TP
.B \-v
Include comments in the output file.

.TP
.B \-W
Enable variable line width.  By default, only two line widths are
available: The normal line width (\thinlines), and thick
lines (\thicklines), if a line width of more than one is selected in xfig.

.TP
.B \-w
Disable variable line width. Only "\fB\\thicklines\fR" and/or
"\fB\\thinlines\fR" commands will be generated in the output file.
.IP
When variable line width option is enabled, "\fB\\thinlines\fR"
command is still used when line width is less than
\fILineThick\fR. One potential problem is that the width of
"\fB\\thinlines\fR" is 0.4pt
but the resolution of Fig is 1/80 inch (approx. 1pt). If
\fILineThick\fR is set to 2, normal lines will be drawn in 0.4pt
wide lines but the next line width is already 2pt. One possible
solution is to set \fILineThick\fR to 1 and set the width of the
those lines you want to be drawn in "\fB\\thinlines\fR"  to 0.

Due to this problem, Variable line width \fIVarWidth\fR
is defaulted to be false.


.SH IBM-GL (HP/GL) OPTIONS
IBM-GL (IBM Graphics Language) is compatible
with HP-GL (Hewlett-Packard Graphics Language).

.TP
.B \-a
Select ISO A4 (ANSI A) paper size if the default is ANSI A (ISO A4) paper size.

.TP
.B \-c
Generate instructions for an IBM 6180 Color Plotter
with (without) an IBM Graphics Enhancement Cartridge (IBM-GEC).

.TP
.B "\-d xll,yll,xur,yur"
Restrict plotting to a rectangular area of the plotter paper which has
a lower left hand corner at
.I (xll,yll)
and a upper right hand corner at
.I (xur,yur).
All four numbers are in inches and follow \fB-d\fR in a comma-sparated list -
.I xll,yll,xur,yur
- with no spaces between them.

.TP
.B "\-f file"
Load text character specifications from the table in the
.I fonts
file.
The table must have 36 entries - one for each font plus a default.
Each entry consists of 5 numbers
which specify the
1.) standard character set (0 - 4, 6 - 9, 30 - 39),
2.) alternate character set (0 - 4, 6 - 9, 30 - 39),
3.) character slant angle (degrees),
4.) character width scale factor and
5.) character height scale factor.

.TP
.B \-k
Precede output with PCL command to use HP/GL

.TP
.B "\-l pattfile"
Load area fill line patterns from the table in the
.I pattfile
file.
The table must have 21 entries - one for each of the area fill patterns.
Each entry consists of 5 numbers which specify the
1.) pattern number (-1 - 6),
2.) pattern length (inches),
3.) fill type (1 - 5),
4.) fill spacing (inches) and
5.) fill angle (degrees).

.TP
.B "\-m mag,x0,y0"
The magnification may appear as the first element in a comma separated list -
.I mag,x0,y0
- where the second and third parameters specify an offset in inches.

.TP
.B \-P
Rotate the figure to portrait mode. The default is landscape mode.

.TP
.B "\-p penfile"
Load plotter pen specifications from the table in the
.I penfile
file.
The table must have 9 entries - one for each color plus a default.
Each entry consists of 2 numbers which specify the
1.) pen number (1 - 8) and
2.) pen thickness (millimeters).

.TP
.B "\-S speed"
Set the pen speed to
.I speed
(centimeters/second).

.TP
.B \-v
Plot the figure upside-down in portrait mode or backwards in landscape mode.
This allows you to write on the top surface of overhead transparencies without
disturbing the plotter ink on the bottom surface.
.LP
Fig2dev may be installed with either ANSI A or ISO A4 default paper size.
The \fB-a\fR option selects the alternate paper size.
Fig2dev does not fill closed splines.
The IBM-GEC is required to fill other polygons.
Fig2dev may be installed for plotters with or without the IBM-GEC.
The \fB-c\fR option selects the alternate instruction set.

.SH OPTIONS COMMON TO ALL BITMAP FORMATS

.TP
.B \-b borderwidth
Make blank border around figure of width
.I borderwidth.

.TP
.B \-F
Use correct font sizes (points, 1/72 inch) instead of the traditional size that xfig/fig2dev uses,
which is (1/80 inch).  The corresponding xfig command-line option is -correct_font_size.

.TP
.B \-g color
Use
.I color
for the background.

.TP
.B \-N
Convert all colors to grayscale.

.TP
.B -S smoothfactor
This will smooth the output by passing
.I smoothfactor
to ghostscript in the 
.I -dTextAlphaBits 
and
.I -dGraphicsAlphaBits
options to improve font rendering and graphic smoothing.
A value of 2 for
.I smoothfactor
provides some smoothing and 4 provides more.

.SH GIF OPTIONS

.TP
.B -t color
Use
.I color
for the transparent color in the GIF file.  This must be specified
in the same format that ppmmake(1) allows.
It may allow an X11 color name, but at least you may use
a six-digit hexadecimal RGBvalue using the # sign, e.g. #ff0000 (Red).

.SH JPEG OPTIONS
.TP
.B -q image_quality
use the integer value
.I image_quality
for the JPEG "Quality" factor.  Valid values are 0-100, with the default being 75.


.SH LATEX OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-d dmag"
Set a separate magnification for the length of line dashes to
.I dmag.

.TP
.B \-E num
Set encoding for latex text translation (0 no translation, 1 ISO-8859-1, 2 ISO-8859-2)

.TP
.B "\-l lwidth"
Sets the threshold between LaTeX thin and thick lines to
.I lwidth
pixels.
LaTeX supports only two different line width: \\thinlines and \\thicklines.
Lines of width greater than
.I lwidth
pixels are drawn as \\thicklines.
Also affects the size of dots in dotted line style.
The default is 1.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode.
.LP
LaTeX cannot accurately represent all the graphics objects which can
be described by Fig.
For example, the possible slopes which lines may have are limited.
Some objects, such as spline curves, cannot be drawn at all.
Fig2latex chooses the closest possible line slope, and prints error
messages when objects cannot be drawn accurately

.SH MAP (HTML image map) OPTIONS
Xfig version 3.2.3 and later saves and allows the user to edit comments
for each Fig object.
The fig2dev map output language will produce an HTML image map using Fig objects
that have href="some_html_reference" in their comments.
Any Fig object except compound objects may used for this.
Usually, besides generating the map file, you would also
generate a PNG file, which is the image to which the map refers.
.sp
For example, you may have an xfig drawing with an
imported image that has the comment
href="go_here.html" and a box object with a comment href="go_away.html".
This will produce an image map file such the user
may click on the image and the browser will load the "go_here.html" page,
or click on the box and the browser will load the "go_away.html" page.
.sp
After the map file is generated by
.I fig2dev
you will need to edit it to fill out any additional information it may need.
.TP
.B "\-b borderwidth"
Make blank border around figure of width
.I borderwidth.


.SH METAFONT OPTIONS
.I fig2dev
scales the figure by 1/8 before generating METAFONT code.
The magnification can be further changed with the
.B -m
option or by giving magnification options to
.B mf.
.LP
In order to process the generated METAFONT code, the mfpic macros
must be installed where
.B mf
can find them. The mfpic macro package is available at any CTAN cite
under the subdirectory: graphics/mfpic

.TP
.B -C code
specifies the starting METAFONT font code. The default is 32.
.TP
.B -n name
specifies the name to use in the output file.
.TP
.B -p pen_magnification
specifies how much the line width should be magnified compared to the
original figure. The default is 1.
.TP
.B -t top
specifies the top of the whole coordinate system. The default is
.B ypos.
.TP
.B -x xmin
specifies the minimum x coordinate value of the figure (inches). The
default is 0.
.TP
.B -y ymin
specifies the minumum y coordinate value of the figure (inches). The
default is 0.
.TP
.B -X xmax
specifies the maximum x coordinate value of the figure (inches). The
default is 8.
.TP
.B -Y ymax
specifies the maximum y coordinate value of the figure (inches). The
default is 8.

.SH METAPOST OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-i file"
Include file content via \\input-command.

.TP
.B "-I file"
Include file content as additional header.

.TP
.B -o
Old mode (no latex).

.TP
.B "-p number"
Adds the line "prologues:=number" to the output.


.SH PIC OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-p ext"
Enables the use of certain PIC extensions which are known to work with
the groff package; compatibility with DWB PIC is unknown.
The extensions enabled by each option are:
.LP
.nf
.in 1.1i
.ta .8i
\fBarc\fR	Allow ARC_BOX i.e. use rounded corners
.br
\fBline\fR	Use the 'line_thickness' value
.br
\fBfill\fR	Allow ellipses to be filled
.br
\fBall\fR	Use all of the above
.br
\fBpsfont\fR	Don't convert Postscript fonts generic type
	(useful for files going to be Ditroff'ed for
	and printed on PS printer). DWB-compatible.
.br
\fBallps\fR	Use all of the above (i.e. "all" + "psfont")
.in
.fi

.SH PICTEX OPTIONS
In order to include PiCTeX pictures into a document, it is necessary to
load the PiCTeX macros.
.LP
PiCTeX uses TeX integer register arithmetic to generate curves,
and so it is very slow.
PiCTeX draws curves by \fB\\put\fR-ing the \fIpsymbol\fR repeatedly,
and so requires a large amount of TeX's internal memory,
and generates large DVI files.
The size of TeX's memory limits the number of plot symbols in a picture.
As a result, it is best to use PiCTeX to generate small pictures.

.TP
.B \-E num
Set encoding for latex text translation (0 no translation, 1 ISO-8859-1, 2 ISO-8859-2)

.SH GBX OPTIONS (Gerber, RS-247-X) 
Typically you will wish to set the y scale to -1.  See
.B -g
for more information.
.TP
.B -d [mm|in]
Output dimensions should be assumed to be millimeters (mm) or inches
(in).  The default is millimeters.
.TP
.B -p [pos|neg]
Select the image polarity.  For positive images lines drawn in the fig
file will generate lines of material.  For negative images lines drawn
in the fig file will result in removed material.  Consider etching a
chrome on glass transmission mask.  Drawing lines in the fig file and
choosing 'neg' will result in these lines being etched through the
chrome, leaving transparent lines.
.TP
.B -g <x scale>x<y scale>+<x offset>+<y offset>
This controls the geometry of the output, scaling the dimensions as
shown and applying the given offset.  Typically you will wish to set
the y scale to -1, mirroring about the x axis.  This is because Gerber
assumes the origin to be bottom left, while xfig selects top left.
.TP
.B -f <n digits>.<n digits>
This controls the number of digits of precision before and after the
implied decimal point.  With -f 5.3 the following number 12345678
corresponds to 12345.678.  Whereas with -f 3.5 it corresponds to
123.45678.  The default is for 3 places before the decimal point and 5
after.  This corresponds, to a range of 0 to 1m in 10 micron
increments.
.TP
.B -i [on|off]
Controls the output of comments describing the type of objects being
output.  The text appears as comments starting with ## on each line in
the output file.  By default this is on.

.SH POSTSCRIPT, ENCAPSULATED POSTSCRIPT (EPS), and PDF OPTIONS
With PostScript, xfig can be used to create multiple page figures 
Specify the -M option to produce a multi-page output. 
For posters, add -O to overlap the pages slightly to get around the problem of
the unprintable area in most printers, then cut and paste the pages together.
Due to memory limitations of most laser printers, the figure should not
have large imported images (bitmaps). Great for text with very big letters.
.LP
The EPS driver has the following differences from PostScript:
.br
.in +.4i
o No showpage is generated because the output is meant to be imported
into another program or document and not printed
.br
o The landscape/portrait options are ignored
.br
o The centering option is ignored
.br
o The multiple-page option is ignored
.br
o The paper size option is ignored
.br
o The x/y offset options are ignored
.LP
The EPS driver has the following two special options:
.TP
.B -B 'Wx [Wy X0 Y0]'
This specifies that the bounding box of the EPS file should have the
width Wx and the height Wy. 
Note that it doesn't scale the figure to this size, it merely sets the bounding box.
If a value less than or equal to 0 is specified for Wx or Wy, these are set 
to the width/height respectively of the figure. Origin is relative to
screen (0,0) (upper-left).
Wx, Wy, X0 and Y0 are interpreted in centimeters or inches depending on the measure 
given in the fig-file.
Remember to put either quotes (") or apostrophes (') to group the arguments to -B.
.TP
.B -R 'Wx [Wy X0 Y0]'
Same as the -B option except that X0 and Y0 is relative to the lower 
left corner of the 
.B figure.
Remember to put either quotes (") or apostrophes (') to group the arguments to -R.
.LP
The PDF driver uses all the PostScript options.
.LP
Text can now include various ISO-character codes above 0x7f, which is
useful for language specific characters to be printed directly.
Not all ISO-characters are implemented.
.LP
Color support: Colored objects created by Fig can be printed
on a color postscript printer. There are 32 standard colors:
black, yellow, white, gold,
five shades of blue, four shades of green,
four shades of cyan, four shades of red, five shades of magenta,
four shades of brown, and four shades of pink.
In addition there may be user-defined colors in the file.  See the
xfig FORMAT3.2 file for the definition of these colors.
On a monochrome printer, colored objects will be mapped into different
grayscales by the printer.
Filled objects are printed using the given area fill and color.
There are 21 "shades" going from black to full saturation of the fill color,
and 21 more "tints" from full saturation + 1 to white.
In addition, there are 16 patterns such as bricks, diagonal lines,
crosshatch, etc.
.TP
.B -A
Add an ASCII (EPSI) preview.
.TP
.B -b borderwidth
Make blank border around figure of width
.I borderwidth.
.br
Not availble in EPS.

.TP
.B -C dummy_arg
Add a color *binary* TIFF preview for Microsoft products that need a binary preview.
See also -T (monochrome preview).  A dummy argument must be supplied for historical reasons.
.TP
.B -c
option centers the figure on the page.
The centering may not be accurate if there are texts in the
.I fig_file
that extends too far to the right of other objects.
.TP
.B -e
option puts the figure against the edge (not centered) of the page.
Not availble in EPS.

.TP
.B -F
Use correct font sizes (points) instead of the traditional size that xfig/fig2dev uses,
which is 1/80 inch.  The corresponding xfig command-line option is -correct_font_size.

.TP
.B -g color
Use
.I color
for the background.
.TP
.B -l dummy_arg
Generate figure in landscape mode.  The dummy argument is ignored,
but must appear on the command line for reasons of compatibility.
This option will override the orientation specification in the
file (for file versions 3.0 and higher).
.br
Not availble in EPS.
.TP
.B -M
Generate multiple pages if figure exceeds paper size.
.br
Not availble in EPS.
.TP
.B \-N
Convert all colors to grayscale.

.TP
.B -n name
Set the Title part of the PostScript output to
.I name.
This is useful when the input to
.I fig2dev
comes from standard input.
.TP
.B -O
When used with \fB-M\fR,
overlaps the pages slightly to get around the problem of
the unprintable area in most printers.
.br
Not availble in EPS.
.TP
.B -p dummy_arg
Generate figure in portrait mode.  The dummy argument is ignored,
but must appear on the command line for reasons of compatibility.
This option will override the orientation specification in the
file (for file versions 3.0 and higher).
This is the default for Fig files of version 2.1 or lower.
.br
Not availble in EPS.

.TP
.B -T
Add a monochrome *binary* TIFF preview for Microsoft products that need a binary preview.
See also -C (color preview).
.TP
.TP
.B -x offset
shift the figure in the X direction by
.I offset
units (1/72 inch).
A negative value shifts the figure to the left and a positive value to the right.
.br
Not availble in EPS.
.TP
.B -y offset
shift the figure in the Y direction by
.I offset
units (1/72 inch).
A negative value shifts the figure up and a positive value down.
.br
Not availble in EPS.
.TP
.B -z papersize
Sets the papersize. 
Not availble in EPS.
.br
Available paper sizes are:
.nf
.in +.4i
"Letter" (8.5" x 11" also "A"),
"Legal" (11" x 14")
"Ledger" (11" x 17"),
"Tabloid" (17" x 11", really Ledger in Landscape mode),
"A" (8.5" x 11" also "Letter"),
"B" (11" x 17" also "Ledger"),
"C" (17" x 22"),
"D" (22" x 34"),
"E" (34" x 44"),
"A4" (21  cm x  29.7cm),
"A3" (29.7cm x  42  cm),
"A2" (42  cm x  59.4cm),
"A1" (59.4cm x  84.1cm),
"A0" (84.1cm x 118.9cm),
and "B5" (18.2cm x 25.7cm).
.fi
.in -.4i
.br
.LP

.SH PSTEX OPTIONS
The
.B pstex
language is a variant of
.B ps
which suppresses formatted (special) text.
The
.B pstex_t
language has the complementary behavior: it generates only the LaTeX
special text and the commands
necessary to position special text, and to overlay the
PostScript file generated using
.B pstex.
These two drivers can be used to generate a figure which combines the
flexibility of PostScript graphics with LaTeX text formatting of
special text.

.TP
.B -F
Use correct font sizes (points) instead of the traditional size that xfig/fig2dev uses,
which is 1/80 inch.  The corresponding xfig command-line option is -correct_font_size.

.TP
.B -g color
Use
.I color
for the background.
.TP
.B -n name
sets the Title part of the PostScript output to
.I name.
This is useful when the input to
.I fig2dev
comes from standard input.
.LP

.SH PSTEX_T OPTIONS
The pstex_t language produces only the LaTeX special text and the commands necessary
to position special text, and to overlay the
PostScript file generated using
.B pstex.
(see above)

.TP
.B \-E num
Set encoding for latex text translation (0 no translation, 1 ISO-8859-1, 2 ISO-8859-2)

.TP
.B \-F
Don't set the font face, series, and style; only set it's size and the
baselineskip. By default, fig2dev sets all 5 font parameters when it 
puts some text. The disadvantage is that you can't set the font from your
LaTeX document. With this option on, you can set the font from your LaTeX
document (like "\fB\\sfshape \\input picture.eepic\fR").
.TP
.B -p file
specifies the name of the PostScript file to be overlaid.
If not set or its value is null then no PS file will be inserted.

.SH PSTricks OPTIONS
The 
.B PSTricks 
driver provides full
.B LaTeX
text and math formatting for XFig drawings without overlaying
separate outputs as in the 
.B PSTEX 
methods.  The output matches the quality of output of the PostScript
driver except for text, where the 
.B Latex
font selection mechanism is used as for other
.I fig2dev
LaTeX drivers. In addition, text is rendered black, although font color-changing
.B LaTex
code can be embedded in the drawing.  
The generated PSTricks code is meant to be
readable.  Each command stands alone, not relying on
global option state variables.  Thus the user can easily use
XFig to rough out a PSTricks drawing, then finish by hand editing.
.PP
To use the driver's output, give the command
"\fB\\usepackage{pstricks}\fR"
in your document preamble.  The
.B graphicx
and
.B pstricks-add
packages may also be required.  The former is used for bitmap graphics
and the second for complex line styles and/or hollow PSTricks arrows
(with the \-R 1 option).  The driver will tell
you which packages are needed.  In the document body, include the
figure with "\fB\\input{pstfile}\fR" where
.B pstfile.tex
is the output file.  Use the
.B XFig special
flag to have text passed as-is to LaTeX.  For non-special text, 
the same mechanism as the LaTeX and epic driver mechanism is used
to match font specs, but this is imprecise.

.TP
.B Known bugs and limitations.
PSTricks support for join styles is version dependent. Raw postscript
is inserted with "\fB\\pstVerb\fR" for old versions when other than
angle joins are needed.  The
.B \-t
option controls this behavior. PSTricks does not support rotated
ellipses directly, so a
.B rput
command is emitted that rotates and locates a horizontal ellipse.
This makes a problem with hatch patterns, which are moved and
rotated along with the ellipse.  Hatch rotation is fixed by a
counter-rotation, but the origin is not adjusted, so
registration with adjacent hatch patterns will be incorrect.  Flipped
bitmap graphics use an undocumented feature of the
.B graphicx
package: a negative height flips the image vertically.  This
appears to work reliably.  However, you may want to flip graphics
with another program before including them in 
.B Xfig
drawings just to be sure.  With the
.B \-p
option, the driver attempts to convert non-EPS pictures to EPS
with the TeX distribution's 
.B bmeps
program, but
.B bmeps
does not know about very many file formats including
.B gif.

.TP
.B \-G dummy_arg
Draws a standard PSTricks grid in light gray, ignoring the size
parameters, numbered in PSTricks units.

.TP
.B \-l weight
Sets a line weight factor that is multiplied by the actual Fig line
width.  The default value 0.5 roughly matches the output of the PS
driver.

.TP
.B \-n 0|1|2|3
Sets environment type.  Default 0 creates a \fB\\picture\fR
environment with bounding box exactly enclosing the picture (but see
.B \-x
and
.B \-y
).  A 1 emits bare PSTricks commands with no environment
at all, which can be used with
\fB\\input{commands}\fR inside an existing \fB\\pspicture\fR.
A 2 emits a complete LaTeX document.  A 3 also emits a complete
LaTeX document but attempts to set the PSTricks unit to fit
a 7.5 by 10 inch (portrait aspect) box.

.TP
.B \-P 
Shorthand for
.B -n 3
 .

.TP
.B \-p dir
Attempts to run the
.B bmeps
program to translate picture files to EPS, which is required by
PSTricks.  The translated files go in 
.I dir
, which must already exist (the driver will not create it). Moreover,
(BIG CAVEAT HERE) the driver overwrites files with impunity in this
directory!  Don't put your stuff here.  The
.B includegraphics
commands in the output file refer to this directory.  Even
if the -p option is not used, 
.B includegrpahics
commands follow this convention with the default directory
.I "\./eps".
In this case, the user must do 
the conversions independently.  The
.B bmeps
program is part of the standard TeX distribution. It converts
the following formats to EPS:
.B png jpg pnm tif.  
You can see the bmeps command with the
.B \-v
option.

.TP
.B \-R 0|1|2
Sets arrow style.  With the default style 0, Fig arrows are converted
to lines and polygons.  With style 1, the Fig arrowhead dimensions are
converted to PSTricks arrowhead dimensions and PSTricks arrowhead
options are emitted.  Hollow arrows will require the additional
package 
.B pstricks-add 
 . With style 2, PSTricks arrowhead options are emitted with no
dimensions at all, and arrowhead size may be controlled globally with
.B psset
 .

.TP
.B \-S scale
Scales the image according to the same convention as the EPIC driver,
i.e., to size
.I scale
 /12.

.TP
.B \-t version
Provides the driver with PSTricks version number so 
output can match expected LaTeX input. 

.TP
.B \-v
Print verbose warnings and extra comments in the output file.
Information provided includes font substitution details, the
.B bmeps
commands used for picture conversion, if any, and one comment per Fig
object in the output.

.TP
.B \-x marginsize
Adds
.I marginsize
on the left and right of the
.B PStricks
bounding box.  By default, the box exactly encloses the image.

.TP
.B \-y marginsize
Adds
.I marginsize
on the top and bottom of the
.B PStricks
bounding box.  By default, the box exactly encloses the image.

.TP
.B \-z 0|1|2
Sets font handling option.  Default option 0 attempts to honor Fig
font names and sizes, finding the best match with a standard LaTeX
font.  Option 1 sets LaTeX font size only.  Option 2 issues no font
commands at all.

.SH TK and PTK OPTIONS (tcl/tk and Perl/tk)
.TP
.B -l dummy_arg
Generate figure in landscape mode.  The dummy argument is ignored,
but must appear on the command line for reasons of compatibility.
This option will override the orientation specification in the
file (for file versions 3.0 and higher).
.TP
.B -p dummy_arg
Generate figure in portrait mode.  The dummy argument is ignored,
but must appear on the command line for reasons of compatibility.
This option will override the orientation specification in the
file (for file versions 3.0 and higher).
This is the default for Fig files of version 2.1 or lower.
.TP
.B -P
Generate canvas of full page size instead of using the bounding box
of the figure's objects. The default is to use only the bounding box.
.TP
.B -z papersize
Sets the papersize.  See the POSTSCRIPT OPTIONS for available paper sizes.
This is only used when the -P option (use full page) is used.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
[x]fig(1),
pic(1)
pic2fig(1),
transfig(1)
.SH BUGS and RESTRICTIONS
Please send bug reports, fixes, new features etc. to:
.br
xfig-bugs@epb1.lbl.gov
(Brian V. Smith)
.PP
Arc-boxes are not supported for the tk output language, and only X bitmap pictures
are supported because of the canvas limitation in tk.
.PP
Picture objects are not scaled with the magnification factor for tk output.
.PP
Because tk scales canvas items according to the X display resolution,
polygons, lines, etc. may be scaled differently than imported pictures (bitmaps)
which aren't scaled at all.
.PP
Rotated text is only supported in the IBM-GL (HP/GL) and PostScript (including eps)
languages.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1991 Micah Beck
.br
Parts Copyright (c) 1985 Supoj Sutantavibul
.br
Parts Copyright (c) 1989-1999 Brian V. Smith
.LP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation. The authors make no representations about the suitability
of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express
or implied warranty.
.LP
THE AUTHORS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.SH AUTHORS
Micah Beck
.br
Cornell University
.br
Sept 28 1990
.sp
and Frank Schmuck (then of Cornell University)
.br
and Conrad Kwok (then of U.C. Davis).
.sp
drivers contributed by
.br
Jose Alberto Fernandez R. (U. of Maryland)
.br
and Gary Beihl (MCC)
.sp
Color support, ISO-character encoding and poster support by
.br
Herbert Bauer (heb@regent.e-technik.tu-muenchen.de)
.sp
Modified from f2p (fig to PIC), by the author of Fig
.br
Supoj Sutanthavibul (supoj@sally.utexas.edu)
.br
University of Texas at Austin.
.sp
MetaFont driver by
.br
Anthony Starks (ajs@merck.com)
.sp
X-splines code by
.br
Carole Blanc (blanc@labri.u-bordeaux.fr)
.br
Christophe Schlick (schlick@labri.u-bordeaux.fr)
.br
The initial implementation was done by C. Feuille, S. Grobois, L. Maziere
and L. Minihot as a student practice (Universite Bordeaux, France).
.sp
Japanese text support for LaTeX output
written by T. Sato (VEF00200@niftyserve.or.jp)
.sp
The tk driver was written by
.br
Mike Markowski (mm@udel.edu) with a little touch-up by Brian Smith
.sp
The CGM driver (Computer Graphics Metafile) was written by
.br
Philippe Bekaert (Philippe.Bekaert@cs.kuleuven.ac.be)
.sp
The EMF driver (Enhanced Metafile) was written by
.br
Michael Schrick (m_schrick@hotmail.com)
.sp
The GBX (Gerber) driver was written by
.br
Edward Grace (ej.grace@imperial.ac.uk).
